on top of the Ag building. Oh, it was just so
tremendous. Do you remember going to Muster when
you were a student? The only time I remember going
to Muster was when we mustered with Corregidor in
1942. You mean? Corregidor.
You mean when they came back after the war was over?
No, sir. While they were on Corregidor. Describe
that one. Oh, that was, we all went down.
I was standing in front of the Ag building and they
had speakers all over the place and General Moore,
who was our commandant, got on the air, and he says
how happy he was to address the Corps and A&M, and
they're all doing fine and well, and that the
Aggies, I think he said there were about 22 Aggies
there, and
they asked if any of the A&M graduates who were
there on Corregidor if they had something to say
and they would typical, hey Aggies, old Army, how
you doing? We didn't say howdy then. It was old
Army. But it was very solemn. Was there anyone on
Corregidor that you had known personally? Carl
Pipkin. Carl Pipkin? Pipkin. P-I-P-K-I-N. Yes,
sir. He was there. And, of course, I knew Colonel
Moore. Now, had he been the commandant here before
he left? Left. He was a colonel. And he left and went
to Pacific and became a general.
But other than that, I can't recall any other
names. Aggies that I knew, probably if I heard the
names I would tell you yes or no that I knew. So
you went to Yale practice regularly, Silver Taps,
that muster you remember. What were some other
events, serious or otherwise, that you and almost
everybody felt you ought to go to? Everybody went
to the football games. Everybody went to the
basketball games. Deware Gym held, I think the
seating capacity was around 4,500. There were
7,000 of us here. I think every dadgum 7,000 cadet
was in that Deware Gym.
We helped make the movie, you know. We've never
been late. We've never been late. Oh, describe
that. Well, that was kind of a mass thing. I never
individually, as handsome and good looking as I
was, was never asked to pardon it. But it was all, it
was good. We participated in it. How long were the,
how long was that going on? It went on for several
months. Really? Yeah, and they came into the mess
hall and they took camera shots of us waiting
tables and that was at Sabisa. And then we had to get
down in front of the Y and have Yale practice where
they took shots of that and they caught us marching
and So that was over a period of several weeks or
months or so. So it wasn't all done in a period of two
or three days. Did you all get to see all those
celebrities, Robert Mitchell? Oh, yeah. They'd
shake hands with us and holler at us. And Gwen.
Where did they live? Were they at the Aggieland? I
think they were at the Aggieland Inn. Right. Yeah.
And then do you remember when you saw the movie
first? Yeah, what was that like? I can't believe
that's A&M.
They made it look better? They sure did.
Glamorized it. But that was quite something. And
it was nice for A&M. Did anybody, did any student or
group of students attempt any kind of pranks or
good bull while they were trying to film it? No,
there was no demonstration of any kind. Everybody
was very cooperative because they knew that it
would help the image of the university. Now, as the
war is going on, You and your buddies at night, did
you all talk about the progress? We really didn't.
We were all busy studying. We didn't talk too much
about it. Did you think about dropping out of
school? No. And volunteering? You were going to
get your degree? I was going to get my degree before
I was called up to service. Did you ever have any
real financial problem where you had to turn to
somebody to really help you out of a jam? Well, I
know Papa went down to the bank and hocked himself
up high. And my brother would send a few step-ins to
us. But see, that was payback for me. I stayed out
two years. and to help them while they were in
college and then Papa while he was at home. I
can't recall any anxieties. You're number three
of your brothers who came to A&M. I was number three
of the four of us. Oh, okay. And there are five
brothers? No, four brothers and one sister. Oh,
okay. One sister, my youngest sister. And I was
number three. Okay, you were number three. Yeah.
How did you get a date as a student? As a student? We
never had any dates here. I had to invite them. I
invited one young lady from Bay City. I'd met her
when I worked there one summer, one winter. And I
liked her and I invited her to come up. She brought
her mother to be well chaperoned. And it was the
artillery ball. And it was nice. But dates, we
would write TSCW and say we got this infantry ball
or whatever ball we had. How many girls could come
and they would write back and say we've got 60, 70,
100 girls. So we would vacate a dormitory and let
them stay there. And how did you get a date from one
of those girls? Just by picking the name. Is that
right? That's all, yeah. And sometimes did end up
with a dull girl? Well, sometimes they would end up
with a dull cadet. I'll tell you one experience I
had in my freshman year, one of my seniors, Slim
Neely, he had made arrangements with a date with a
girl from TSCW.
And he said, now Fish Kokonos, I want you to go down
there and you ask for Betty, I forget her name, and
if she's good looking you come back and tell me.
She's not good looking. Tell her I had to leave this
weekend and I wouldn't be here." So I went down
there. A couple of us went down there. They had the
same assignment. And we decided if we were good
looking, we were going to come back and say, oh man,
it was horrible. And then we'd go have a date with
them. Because they didn't care. They just had a
date with a cadet. So we had a lot of fun with that.
Describe
one of the big dances, say the artillery dance.
Sabisa Hall, really nice. Little Jack Little was
the orchestra and they played real good music and
we danced and just had real good fun. Did you all
decorate Sabisa? We did. The cadets did. I don't
know who did. But it was decorated? I don't think. A
couple of times it might have been. And how did the
Aggies conduct themselves at a dance? I don't
recall any bad instance of anything at a dance. And
how were the girls treated? Oh, like ladies,
really were. I don't recall anything that ever
happened to a girl that we invited down. All right
now when the dance was over, would they ever go
anywhere after the No, because it was a curfew and
we had to get them back and a lot of us didn't have
cars to go anywhere. And we'd walk around the
campus and explain to the girls this is ag, this is
the wine, this is law and prayer, and this is
Mitchell Hall and Bazell and we'd walk around the
campus. Where did, if anybody wanted to get a drink
then, where did they go? You mean alcohol?
You know, I really don't know because I really
didn't drink, didn't smoke, but we had Uncle Ed
Hard Liquor. It was a nice club that people went to
have beer with. But it was out here on the highway.
You had to have a car to get out there. And Brian, you
could ride the bus into Brian. Other than that. Now
after the war, I know, went out toward Snook and
immediately crossed the river with a place with
the nickname Whiskey Bridge. Whiskey Bridge,
that's right. Yeah, we had that too. We didn't name
it that. I know what you're talking about. Did an
Aggie ever bring some whiskey brack to the dorm?
They did, but I never witnessed it. Isn't that
funny? I never, in my dorm, the guys I ran with
never. All right, you mentioned smoking. About
how many, about what percentage of cadets smoked?
It wasn't a big percent. I would say the ones I knew,
in fact my roommate Bobby Woodham smoked. And I
wouldn't, you know, we had a discussion about
smoking in the room. I would say ten percent.
That's all? That's all. And they're smoking
cigarettes? Cigarettes, but a lot of them were
tobacco chewers. They chewed tobacco then. No
snuff? No snuff. Did some of them roll their own?
They did. Yeah, I guess a few of them did. What about
pipes? Bullderm.
Not many pipes. Was it legal for them to smoke in the
dorm? There was no ordinance on it. There was no
rules. It was just consideration. But I don't
recall smoking in a dorm, now that you mention it.
Had you and your buddies even heard the words that
we now hear about drugs? Did you even know what?
Didn't know what it was about. Marijuana? Never
heard of it. Cocaine? Didn't know what that's all
about. Let's see. What about card games in the
dorms? Oh, yeah. I never was a card player, but that
went on. I mean some of them would play all night.
Poker? Poker. Oh yeah, that went on. Dominoes? Not
too much. Just poker. Maybe at the Y they played
dominoes. Was some of the poker for money? Oh yeah,
yeah. Let's see, we did dates and
you didn't go to summer school here, ever? One
semester. Oh, you did? I'm trying to remember. One
six-week course I went here. How was that
different? It wasn't much different, just less
students, more time for recreation, more time for
handball. Me and Manny Smith. And were there,
there were some girls then? Oh yeah. There were
girls then. But not much, not much. Went in and
mingling and socializing. Because normally the
guy would come to summer school. He had an
objective he wanted to get out of the way. What did
you and your friends do for recreation, for fun?
Not much. Well, Saturday night, I take it back, we
would go to Bryan. He'd go to the Dixie Cafe and have
a sandwich or something or go to the Wooden Dairy
Queen Inn, it was another name, have an ice cream
cone and walk around Bryan and just stand on the
corner and have a bowl session and about 11 o'clock
come on back. And did you hitchhike down there? I
had a bus running. Oh, okay. Where was the bus? At
the Northgate? Northgate. And I'm always closing
the Northgate. The upperclassman says, too cold,
go close the Northgate. That's where Lipscomb
Drugstore was. We used to go there a lot. hang
around the drug store. Did they have a soda
fountain? Oh yes, a soda fountain. What else was
there at Northgate? Well, Harlech Boots Shop was
there, Lucchese was there, Campus Clothing Store
was there, a few hamburger joints. Campus
Theater. Campus Theater, oh yeah.
But it's not like it is now. Now,
Lewpott was there. Did you ever get a loan from old
Army Lew? No, sir. I never did. He said he never had a
student that failed to pay off his loan. I believe
it. That they were all honest. Let's see, do you
remember when you bought your senior ring? I sure
do. Describe that please. I had accumulated
enough money to buy my ring. How much did it cost? I
want to say $90. I don't have any idea. I want to say
$90. I think they're $300 or $400 now. And my boots
were about $100. I still got my boots. But when I got
my Aggie ring, I put that thing on and I was so proud.
I took it home and showed it to Papa and Mama and they
were so proud. Of course, I already had two of them,
Pete and Jimmy. But my boots. Wait, let's stay with
the ring. Have you ever lost your ring? No, sir.
Have you had any good ring stories? I sure do.
Please share some of those. One of the finest ring
stories happened to me during the Battle of the
Bulge. On the third day, we were fighting the
Germans. We were trying to push them out, trying to
straighten the line out. I was a forward observer
with the infantry, and I was going to move from one
OP across the field to another OP, which I thought
would give me a better line of sight. And as I got
halfway, the Germans counterattacked with
artillery and I hit the ground. And I'm laying flat
on my face on the ground with my arms outstretched.
Next thing I knew somebody had thrown his arm on top
of my arm and I looked at it and he had an Aggie ring
on. And I looked up and there was a colonel,
Lieutenant Colonel. I said, Colonel, my name's
Coconose, Mike Coconose. Lieutenant Kokonos,
you got a brother named Pete?" I said, yes sir, I
sure do. He and I are classmates, good friends, we
had a lot of classes together. I said, Colonel, get
us out of here. He said, I wish I could, I'd leave
myself. But we sat and chatted for a few minutes and
He was with the 94th Division. His name was Colonel
Berry. And he was on his way back to his battalion
when he saw me laying on the ground. And he saw my
ring, so he says, I thought I'd have some fun and
throw my arm on top of your ring. And I saw him about
two years, three years after the The war here at A&M
at a football game, he had a heart attack after that
and died. But that was quite a story. Oh, that's
special. Any other Ring stories? Not really,
except for that. I don't believe I could top that.
Why are Aggie Rings so special and so treasured? It
stands for a great institution. That's one of the
reasons I love the ring. And I look at it, mine's
being worn down now because I never take it off
except maybe play handball.
But it's special because it stands for a great
college, great people, and your comrades, your
classmates. That's what it stands for. Now, you
mentioned this comrade. What is it that builds
that feeling of togetherness? What is it that
makes Aggies so proud? They're proud because,
first, they want to get an education. Secondly,
when they come up here, and when I came up here, we
all put on the same uniform together. We look
alike. There's no difference. And I use Bum Bright
as a perfect example. Bum Bright who? You've got
the same khaki shirt I've got on, same brown shoes I
have. And that way it equalizes everybody. And
everybody shares the same relationship here at
A&M. Heartaches or troubles or things or
happiness that no other college has. It's unique.
It's unique here. And are
there certain experiences or events that are key
to building that unity?
Well the bonfire is a deal. We had bonfires. Yale
practice,
silver taps.
Commencements? Commencements. Football games?
Football games, standing up at every people. The
public are amazed that we never sit down. Even in
those days, go back to Beaumont and say you guys
never sit down. As long as that team's out on the
field we never sit down. We're ready to go in if they
need us. And
we don't, at that time we didn't worry about the
academic standing of A&M. We knew it was a good
school. And we wanted to make it better. And this
cohesion we had as a student body, I think, helped
the former student association find a sink that
happened to A&M. In general, describe the student
body when you were here. Where were they from? What
kind of families? What kind of background? And
what kind of attitudes? I smile when you say that,
because I never heard of Dobine. I never heard of
Snook.
Round Rock, I never heard of all these places.
Linden, I never heard of Linden. And all these guys
coming in from different parts of the state of
Texas. And you know what? They're just like me.
That was so nice. They're no different than I am.
And he might have been bigger and taller or shorter
and fatter. But his attitude was the same as mine.
Wasn't getting an education. And I never heard of
Hearn. I never heard of Caldwell.
So that's what makes A&M so unique. All right,
senior boots. Where'd you buy them? Luke Casey.
Still got them. Got them underneath my clothes
rack when I come in from the office. I put my coat in
there. There's my boots. And I keep them there
because my grandchildren come in. I have 19 of
them. And they come in, and they're now 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12 years old. They want to put them on and walk
through the house. So I let them walk through the
house with my spurs and everything. How did you
feel when you first put those boots on? Oh, top of
the world. They did. Had a waist about 32 inches.
Good shape, felt good, put on them boots, boot
britches. Now, were you yet going steady with this
young lady? No, that finally went by the waist. I
really never went steady with any girl. Okay, so
your future wife, you had not? Oh, no. I met her at
church, and that's how we got married. Let's see,
final review. Did y'all... Grig Feely, not the
owner of Drill Field. Describe that, please. Oh,
he just, well, made several of them, as you know,
but my final review...
This spring of 40? 43. 1943.
And it was kind of sad. because we knew everybody
was going to go a different direction. Normally,
when you graduate from college, you keep in touch
with your classmates, but in this situation, we
knew we were all going different directions and
didn't know when we'd see each other again. It was
very touching. Do you remember who the reviewing
officer was? I don't remember. The commandant
here was Colonel Welty. He was tough. Ooh, he was
tough. Who came up for your final review and
commencement from your family? I don't think
anybody come up. Mom and dad didn't come? Mama
couldn't come up. Papa couldn't come up. They
couldn't come up. First place didn't have the
transportation to get them up here. And my brother
Pete was in Bay City. and he couldn't come. Jimmy
was on his way to Australia and Andrew was already
here. Now did you already have orders to report for
active duty? Not at that time. Not at that time? I
had a unique situation. I applied to medical
school and the military told me here, Colonel
Welty said, okay, you will delay your entry until
you're here from medical school in May. My class
left in December, I mean the first part of
February, 43. They went en masse to OCS. Well, May
came and I wasn't accepted to medical school, so I
was told that I would have to go to the Army, and I
said, okay. I said, I'll go to OCS like my
classmates.
They did not allow that for me. I had to go to basic
training. Oh. Fourteen weeks. Oh. Colonel Welch
would not turn loose my papers. He went, of course,
I didn't go in February. I said, well, sir, you told
me. You're the one that told me I could delay. Well,
I made a mistake or something. OK. So I was called in
and went to basic training. then went to OCS. I went
with, I went to OCS with a class of 44 and 45. They
were called up, sent back to A&M, then went to, so it
was all that. Now this is Fort Sill? Fort Sill,
Oklahoma. I went to OCS there. In the summer of 43?
43, that's right. As you... Incidentally, Fort
Sill Put me in the Hall of Fame. They have a Hall of
Fame for their officers. Very good. Because I went
in as a basic trainee and come out as a general. They
like that.
As you look back, what did you learn here that's
been important and significant, important in
your life?
What did A&M teach you?
I never really asked that particular question,
but A&M, I'll start off by saying without A&M, I
don't know where I'd be. I had no idea. But A&M set me
in the right direction of what I wanted to do and how
to do it in a dedicated, honest, with integrity way
of doing things in life. And that's what A&M, to me,
set me on that course. I could have been a
politician, I could have been a vet, I could have
been a doctor, I could have been an engineer, I
could have been anything, but it told me this is how
you do it and do it in the right way. had that with
Papa and Mama at home. Discipline, honesty. But
this reinforced it. This reinforced it, that's
correct. And how was that done and what methods
were those values perpetuated here? Well, the
funny thing is I moved up from sophomore to
junior-senior, I counseled a lot of freshmen in my
battery. And I watched them and I could see they
were being troubled by certain things and I would
visit with them. And A&M helped me to counsel with
them, and A&M helped me to try to help them.
Actually,
you can't really put your finger on what A&M does
for you. Just do it. Did you become an officer in the
Corps? Yes, I was a second lieutenant on H Battery.
And what were your responsibilities there? Well,
to just work with the battery personnel,
counseling. That's probably the biggest one. And
I'm trying to remember some direct duties I had,
but I just I was an H battery officer. As you look
back over those years, if all the people that had
been helpful to you were available today for you
personally to express your appreciation to them,
to whom would you most want to say words of
appreciation and why? Your A&M years.
Talking about cadets, or are you talking about
anybody? Anybody. Cadets, teachers, advisers.
Well I think one of the dominating persons in my
life was Barney Corot, my basketball coach.
Really liked him. And Colonel Elwood. What did you
learn from those people? I learned to do the best
job I was possibly I could do. That's what I learned
from Corot. As short as I was in basketball, he gave
me the opportunity to compete against the tall
guys, the best guys, and stuff like that. And
Colonel Elwood instilled in me the military
discipline that I needed to carry on in the war and
in my military career along with that. Who else?
I'm just, oh, there were so many guys that, there
were really... Some teachers, some friends?
Teachers, well, Dr. Hick felt, I mentioned his
name before, but after that it became, I realized
everything fell on me. as an individual that I
better not depend on anybody, but I could go get
counseling if I needed it.
If you could be a consultant to A&M today, to the
leadership, what advice would you give them about
A&M's future? What would you advise them to do in
the future? to make A&M become whatever it is you
think it ought to be.
That's a very challenging statement you're
making. I think the management, and that's
President Boyne and them and the board, need to
really get down in touch with the former students
more. I think the student body is okay.